# Guide > Concepts > Repository Structure

The Hex standard repository structure is designed to separate concerns and dependencies into their own directories.

We believe this has several benefits, including:

- Reducing cognitive load when working on the app, as categorising and splitting up the code reduces what needs to be "loaded into memory" to work on one piece of it
- Managing dependencies is easier, as rather than a long list of deps, we can see which deps are for which part of our application
- Upgrading dependencies is easier, as we can do them per-category of our app, e.g. upgrade just the app, or upgrade tooling, etc.

## Repository Directories

The repository is split into the following sections:

- [Repository Root](#repository-root)
- [Application Code](#application-code)
- [Documentation](#Documentation)
- [Unit Testing](#unit-testing)
- [Integration Testing](#integration-testing)
- [Component Library](#component-library)
- [Directories for other sub-sections](#other-directories-and-files)

### Repository Root

The repository root is responsible for overall repository standards and concerns. This can include linting of all code,
GitHub or other CI workflows, running automated commands on git hooks with Husky, setting the browserlist for our application, etc.

**.github** contains all of our GitHub configuration.

**.husky** contains our git hook automation setup.

**.vscode** and **.idea** contain VSCode and PHPStorm project-level configuration settings.

We also setup ESLint, Commitlint and Lint Staged at the root level, and tap into them automatically using Husky.

Lastly, these deps are all managed in the top-level package.json, including some scripts, and our browserlist.

### Application Code

Our application lives within the `/src` directory, and contains the Nuxt app.

### Documentation

Documentation lives under `/docs`. It is split into 4 sections: Getting Started, Guide, Examples and Technical Reference.

### Unit Testing

Most commonly under a directory called `/vitest` or `/jest`. This directory contains configuration, setup and helpers for our
unit testing software.

Note that when writing unit tests, we prefer to co-locate them with the unit that is being tested. So, while we have
a top-level directory for unit testing, the tests themselves would live throughout the `/src` directory itself.

### Integration Testing

Most commonly under a directory called `/playwright` or `/cypress`. This directory contains everything required to
run integration testing across our application.

Unlike Unit Testing, Integration tests all live within this directory.

### Component Library

Most commonly under a directory called `/storybook`. This directory contains all the configuration, setup and helpers for
our component library software.

Note that this mounts and displays components from our application, so is configured to load files from our `/src` directory.

### Other Directories and Files

Further directories and files can be added as required to the root of the repository.

Next: [Read about the Application Structure](./2.%20Application%20Structure.md)
