# Guide > Concepts > Application Structure

The Hex standard application architecture is broken into several main layers:

- Routing
- Presentation
- Services
- API
- Global Store
- Pub/Sub for Third Party

Each layer is explained below.

The Presentation and Services layers, and Middleware for routing, are also split into two main categories: 
[General](./src/general) and [Modules](./src/modules). These are also explained later on.

## Application Layers

### Application Configuration and Bootstrapping

This layer consists of defining the config required for the application, and booting the application from it.
As it's Nuxt, the main entry point for this is `~/nuxt.config.ts`. 

Configuration settings can be found under the `~/config` directory. For example, most of the Nuxt configuration is broken
into files under `~/config/nuxt`. Similarly, Tailwind config can be found under `~/config/tailwind`, and application config 
under `~/config/app`. This directory can be used for any kind of configuration needs.

Lastly, environment variables can be used in this config directory. Almost exclusively, these are given to Nuxt's runtime config
via `~/config/nuxt/runtimeConfig`, either privately for server-only variables, or public for ones that may go in the client bundle.

The rest of the application boostrapping happens by the Nuxt framework. This may pull in further files for the other
layers of the application, such as `router.ts`, `app.vue` or the `server/api` directory. Nuxt's functionality can be
extended using the Nuxt config, commonly via the `~/config/nuxt/hooks.ts` file.

### Routing and Middleware

The Routing layer has several responsibilities, predominantly responsible with calling certain functionality based on
the URL of the page.

Middleware is hooked in here, receiving the request, optionally performing some actions, and either handling the request or
passing it along to the next Middleware.

If the request passes through the whole middleware stack, Nuxt will then pass it to the Router and attempt to load
a page-level component for it, according to our `router.ts` file (or our `~/pages` directory if file-based routing is in use).

If this component is loaded, it's our entry to the Presentation layer of our application.

### Presentation

The presentation layer is focused on presenting UI to the user, and responding to input from the user.

Common examples of the presentation layer are UI components, page and layout components, and composables for things like
browser/user events and re-usable UI logic.

#### What the presentation layer is not

This layer is the easiest to seep other responsibilities into. E.G. a `ProductCard.vue` component may add a product to cart by
calling API layer's `CartApi.addToCart()`. However, this means logic for loading, errors, retrying, etc also need to be
handled in our `ProductCard.vue`. It also couples our ProductCard to this specific API, making it harder to re-use.

That's why we have other layers to help us with these actions.

### Services

The Services layer helps us by abstracting common logic around using a particular area of the application. It is the
layer that handles interfacing with our APIs, providing loading and error states and functionality, some level
of data manipulation if required, etc.

The services layer helps keep our UI layer focused and our components re-usable.

### API

The API layer is specifically for handling API integrations, and the complexity that is required around those.

This layer will often set up a HTTP library such as axios or apollo, and load the necessary config to bootstrap a usable
instance. It will then define API methods that can be called, handle any data transformation of requests or responses
that is required, and make the actual requests.

This layer may also be responsible for automatically retrying requests when they fail, or for making the requests cancellable
and providing the means to cancel them. It may also help provide some form of request idempotency if required.

#### Response Transformations

There is a sub-layer here that we could call the Transformation layer. This is typically a set of Transformation objects
which can be passed to API requests to instruct them how to transform the data responses.

It's not strictly a layer, as transformation happens in this API layer, but it's worth noting. Transformers are defined
in their own files, and could be used by Services, Modules or even UI Components, to help get the data in the format required.

### (Optionally) Server API Layer

Often, we don't wish to ship all the code required for interacting with APIs to our users. In those cases, we can write
a small API that sends and receives data exactly as our application requires it, and we can move our data formatting
and boilerplate code out to a hosted API instead.

This allows us to ship less JavaScript to the client, resulting in faster load and execution times and lower bundle sizes,
while also helping reduce application complexity by moving that logic to a separate layer.

This is commonly done using serverless functions, and we can make use of the `~/server/api` directory for this.

### Global Store

The Global Store is a layer for storing truly application-wide state. This could be application configuration, user data 
and settings, or user cart information.

The Global Store shouldn't be used for non-global state. For example, page state, such as what filters are currently set
on a product search page, or captured data entry during an Onboarding flow, do not belong in the Global Store. These are
better situated in a composable.

The Global Store layer can be accessed from anywhere in the application safely. Our Global Stores use Pinia.

### Pub/Sub for Third Party

Lastly we have the publisher/subscriber layer. This layer allows the application to listen for certain events
or interactions, and then take actions mostly unrelated to the main flow of the application.

A common example for this layer is analytics - we wouldn't want to mix analytics code in with our application code,
as this can make it harder to read, refactor, edit, etc. This would be compounded if we had multiple analytics vendors
to track to, or other actions to take at the same time.

Instead, we can publish events that can be emitted at the relevant points, optionally adding in data to the event. These
can then be subscribed to, to easily perform actions in response to these events.

This helps keep our third party code separate from our application code, decoupling it and making it all easier to manage.

## General vs Modules

When working on our application, we often find we have core domain concepts that need to be translated into code. We 
also find we have more general concepts, like UI, Constants, Exceptions, etc, that aren't related to the core domain concepts,
but that may be required for UX/UI, ease of use or to manage application complexity.

Therefore we have two directories in the application to manage these two cases: `~/general` and `~/modules`.

Modules are essentially the domain concerns of your application, split into logical chunks. For example, an e-commerce 
store may have the following App Modules: Products, Categories, Search, Cart, Checkout, User, Orders.

And General covers everything not related to a specific module. This could be the general application constants, exceptions,
components, composables, types, helpers, etc.

The reason for this split is that we prefer to co-locate code where possible. For example, if our application domain includes
Products, we might have components, composables, helpers, services, etc, all related to Products. The common way to split
this is by code type, e.g. in `~/components/ProductCard.vue`, or potentially `~/components/Product/Card.vue`.

However, when working on the Products feature of our application, we're often going to be working on multiple "types" of
code—e.g. a component, a composable and a service—at the same time. The problem is, this code is spread all over our application,
with hundreds of other files. It's impossible to see all the files related to our feature in one place.

Therefore, we aim to co-locate code by feature, rather than by type, and that is exactly what our modules directory is for.

## Mapping application layers to directory structure

The **Routing** layer encompasses our routes and our middleware. Our routes are defined in our `router.ts`, and our middleware
will exist in `~/general/middleware` and under specific modules in `~/modules`.

**Presentation** is usually our largest layer, consisting of components, composables and helpers. Therefore, you'll find these
under `~/general` and `~/modules`, inside respective folders `components`, `composables` and `helpers`. There's also the
`~/pages`, `~/layouts` and `~/assets` directories, which all contribute to the presentation layer.

**Services** are defined under `~/general/services`, and under a `services` directory in a Module.

The **API** layer lives under `~/api`.

**Global Stores** would live under `~/stores`. Anything not Global would likely be in a composable in either `~/general/composables`
or under a specific Module.

Lastly, **Pub/Sub** could live anywhere, but is most commonly found under `~/plugins`, as it's most often utilised by
third party code.

## Next Steps

[Read Guide > Features](../2.%20Features/0.%20Overview.md) for information on the feature's in this application  
[Read Guide > Directory Structure](../3.%20Directory%20Structure/0.%20Overview.md) for information on this application's
overall directory structure
